Hey everybody.
Welcome back to
Boost Your Income With
Bootstrap To WordPress.
We're in a brand new section now or
module as we can call it.
Where we're going to be converting
our static templates into dynamic.
WordPress.
Pages.
So in this first lecture of this section,
we're going to be creating
a homepage template.
It's a very simple lecture,
see you in there.
[MUSIC]
All right everyone,
here's whats gonna happen.
We're going to get started
on the good stuff here.
So here's our local version of the site,
and
we need to basically start making
it look a bit more like this.
So this right here is a template.
It's an actual template
that I created in php and
associated it with WordPress, and then
we can use that to start creating this.
So, right now that might sound confusing,
or whatever, but
let me just show you
how we're gonna do it.
Go to your code edition.
What you're gonna want to do is,
in your root directory of the theme,
you're going to want to
create a file called
page-home.php.
Now, the naming convention with
this is to create a template.
You need to start off by calling it page.
So you see here how there's a page.php.
Page.php is actually the default page,
that displays or
the default template that displays for
all pages.
So right here, this is actually
serving up content from or
the structure from page.php but
if we wannnacreate alternate templates.
And we just need to create
new files called page- and
then whatever the title is.
Whatever you want to call it.
This doesn't actually show
up anywhere on the site.
It's just for your reference.
So I know this is gonna be the homepage.
So page-home, makes perfect sense for me.
So go ahead and do that.
And what you're gonna want to do now
is actually take the content from
page.php, copy it and paste it in here.
Now we're basically gonna be
getting rid of most of it but
I just want to show you the basic
structure and get this going.
So, right here,
we start out with some text.
And this is from the page.php, and it's
all in a comment just letting you know,
this is the default template
that displays for all pages.
Please note that this is
the WordPress construct of pages, and
that other pages on your WordPress
site will use a different template.
So we're gonna be creating
different templates for our pages.
And because the homepage is very specific,
we need to create a very
specific template.
So get rid of this, basically all of this,
and add a new php comment here.
And in here, this is where you
give the title of the template.
And this is important because it
actually shows up on the front end or
the dashboard at WordPress and
I'll show you now in a sec.
So Template Name, it's important
that you type that out, Home Page.
That's what we're gonna
call this template.
And then leave get_header.
We're gonna rid of all of the HTML cuz we
have our own that we're gonna be building.
And we actually don't need the sidebar for
this, so don't get_sidebar.
That function, if you are curious,
pulls sidebar.php right here.
But we don't need it.
Get_header pulls header.php
right over here, and
get_footer, you guessed it,
pulls in footer.php.
We don't need the sidebar, so
this is what we need right now.
Go ahead and save that.
Let's go back to WordPress,
and open up the dashboard.
And go to pages.
And let's just delete the sample page.
We don't need it,
we're gonna start from scratch.
Go ahead and add a new page.
And here, call it, just call it Home.
Now over here in the page attributes.
Right here.
You see this section called Template.
So Default Template is page.php but
I wanna click this and
now we have an option called Home Page.
And that's only there because
we created a new page meaning
page-home.php and in the php comment said
template name home page, here it is.
So now this content is what's gonna be
pulled into our page-home template.
When we serve up the homepage.
So go ahead and publish that.
And you're not gonna
see anything right now.
So if I go view page, it's actually
gonna be totally empty except for
the header because there's nothing.
There's nothing here.
And we're not telling WordPress in any way
to pull in content from the database or
pull in our HTML or anything.
It's just start from scratch.
So now, just to get started a little bit,
open up your static HTML file.
And basically everything in
here from HERO all the way down
to just before SIGN UP SECTION.
So at the end of kudos your
gonna cut that or copy it and
then paste it in your page home.
Right there, there it is.
So now what you actually wanna do,
what I forgot to do in the footer lecture,
which is just a couple back,
was put the footer info from index, so
sign up section and footer and modal.
We want that as well, copy that and
put it in footer.php right above
the Bootstrap core JavaScript.
That's where we want it, because that
stuff is important to have global.
We want it on all of the templates,
all the pages.
So save that.
And let's just check it
out on the front end.
So now our home page actually has our
content and it's pretty much perfect.
Except for
our images are pulling the wrong path,
which we can fix with a batch search and
replace.
We'll do that in a sec.
But everything is here.
What's awesome now is that we've
already coded the static template,
the static files in the first
section of this course.
And now, we just need to go through, and
just nit pick and use some WordPress
functions, and fiddle around with some
variables and php and all the fun stuff.
And then we're going to start
having a really cool, dynamic site.
It's actually quite easy once you get
the grasp and you know what you're doing.
And that's why I'm here to show you.
I'm gonna show you how to do this so
you can replicate this process for
your own projects in the future.
Whether it's a personal project, whether
it's a startup and you're building your
own website, whether you're a graphic
designer and you get a project to design.
And then instead of hiring a web
developer and paying them three, five,
ten thousand dollars, or whatever.
You can charge that and pocket that.
So by knowing the skill, you're every
new lecture that you take with me
now is just going to equip you with
incredibly valuable skills that you
can be charging a lot of money for.
And that's why I want to teach you this,
it's super exciting.
And for me it was life changing and
I hope it's the same for you.
So there's my little inspirational moment.
Let's get back into the good stuff.
I'm just gonna do a couple things.
Let's maybe do that batch search and
replace,
because those images
are bugging me right now.
Okay.
So all we really need to do for this
stuff, maybe let's not do this one by one.
Let's do a search and replace again.
If you're using Coda, Cmd+F,
or you can, somewhere up here,
you can do Edit > Find > Find and
Replace, that sort of stuff.
But right here it's a little toolbar,
Cmd+F.
If you're using a different code editor,
I guess you're on your own,
but it should be pretty easy to do that.
Okay.
So
all we really need to do again is source.
And I'm gonna select everything
that's src="assets/img.
And then over here I want this
to be src="php bloginfo.
And in bloginfo we have a couple strings,
stylesheet_directory.
Now it's gonna give us the style
sheet directory, /assets/image.
And we don't have a trailing slash at the
end over here, so don't put it over here.
Go ahead and find and
replace all of those, and
that would be 11 instances on this page.
So now if I save and refresh.
We should have our images and
they should all be there, perfect, great.
One last thing here,
while we're on the home page,
basically, this is it for this lecture.
But, there's one little thing here,
if you look up here in the address bar,
you can see local host port 8888/ and
then we have query string page id=7.
So this is the standard default
way that WordPress pulls in pages.
Cuz it's php and so it's pulling
the page ID that the database stored for
this page and
that's how it's serving up the content.
But it doesn't look good, it looks bad.
And it's not good for SEO.
And it's not good for
telling your friends or your clients,
go to my website bradic.ca/?page_id=7%,
whatever, it's no good.
So it's very easy to fix,
just go to your dashboard and
head to Settings > Permalinks.
And then right away I just wanna fix this
because we're gonna do it at some point,
might as well do it now.
Post name.
You can use any of these.
Numeric, month and
day name if you're blogging heavily and
you want everything categorized by date.
Or you just want to be numeric like this.
Or post name, which just always
has / whatever the page name is.
It could be /about, /blog,
/ if you have a post name,
like how I made a thousand bucks,
it'd be /how-I-made so on so forth.
Or custom structure if you want it to be
a little more detailed, like you want look
your website name / the category
of the blog/the blog post name.
And I like doing that because I
think it's a little bit better for
SEO, and it's a bit more structured.
So if you're going to, if you prefer
a blog post and it's categorized code,
then it will be,
the URL will be website.com/code/postname.
Do you know what I mean?
So let's do that.
It's really easy.
It's just /%category%/%postname%/.
So that's all.
It's very straightforward.
And that just means it's gonna pull
the category, if there is one.
And if there are multiple, it's just gonna
pull the first one and then postname.
So go ahead and save that.
You don't have to do it, but
that's what I want to do.
Perfect.
So
now if I go back it should just say
nothing because we're on the homepage.
So I just noticed something here.
I went back to the main page of the site
and then somehow we're back here.
The reason being is I forgot
to do a couple of things.
So very easy fix.
Let's go back to our dashboard.
Now what we're gonna do is go ahead and
go back to settings and
then go to Reading.
So it's right here.
The front page displays,
by default this is your latest post, so
it acts as the blog page.
Otherwise, you can have a static
page display as a front page,
which is what we want,
which would be our homepage.
So go ahead and
select Home for front page.
Posts page, we don't have a blog page yet,
which we will.
Leave that as just Select for
now, and we'll change that.
And while you're working on you site
locally make sure to discourage search
engines from indexing the site.
That's just so
you don't accidentally index your site.
However it's not gonna happen
because you're working locally but
if you put it up on a staging URL and
you're still working on it,
you don't want your site to be
indexed until it's fully live.
So make sure that is
checked until you are live.
Good.
So, now if I go back to the homepage,
we should be good.
There we go.
Great.
That's it.
See you in the next lecture.
We're going to start playing around with
some variables and some custom fields and
start making this dynamic.
Cool, see you there.
[MUSIC]